In this lecture we're going to learn about notifications and so notifications on Android Wear are excellent.
Pretty easy to use.
I'm going to walk you through all of it right here.
So let's go ahead and do a new studio project.
I'm going to call this where notification demo will go ahead and hit next.
Let's go ahead and do a web app here are going to do API 26 and use the latest and greatest.
There are some changes to notifications so I would stick with me on the same notifications here.
Let's do main activity and it hit finish.
OK so this is going to be another app where we don't have to visually work with any of the layouts but
we are going to have to do a lot of program and so we're not going to worry about that layout code but
also like you for us we'll be able to test this on the emulator.
So there's this code that works with the text view that's already there.
I assume just go ahead and leave that it's not going to bother us now.
Essentially what we want to do is we want to make a notification and notify ourselves about it.
But there's a couple of things that kind of have to go in place first so the first big thing that we've
got to get is a notification manager.
So I'm going to type out notification manager and I'll call it manager and this is going to be equal
to and we want to get system service and we're going to pass inside of here capital context.
The all the complete on that dot and we want notification service.
So make sure you get entered in there.
You're going to have to cast this to say that this is going to come back as a notification manager.
But once you do that all should be OK.
Then once you have this manager you need to create a notification channel.
So this is a new thing with Android.
Oh.
So let's go ahead and make that a notification channel or just call that notification channel is equal
to a new Capitol notification channel and inside of here there's a couple of things that we've got to
ads for the first one is the idea.
And we're going to have this by default.
The next is we're going to have to have a name and we're just going to call this a test because we're
just kind of making a little test case here.
And then for the Importance This is where we're going to want to say capital notification manager dot
and there's all these importances But let's just go ahead and do important default.
OK.
So they will go ahead and get it set up default test and importance default.
All right so that creates a channel for us.
The next thing that we need to do is actually although we've created this channel it's not quote unquote
been created in the manager.
So we're going to have to get access to this manager and say Dot create notification channel and we
just pass in our notification channel and that will work.
All right.
So with that in place the next thing that we need to do is build a notification.
So we're just going to type out the capital notification dot builder to make a new notification builder
make sure you get the capital on that.
And I'll just go ahead and call that builder and say this is equal to a new capital notification Oh
really botched New their new notification builder.
And then inside of here this is new in Android.
Oh we want to pass this in the context but also we need to pass the channel ID which in this case is
going to be default.
So we'll go ahead and put default in there.
Now there some other things we want to add to this.
One is we want to set a title so we're going to do set content and we want title.
So maybe for our title we're going to say Hello there.
Excellent point.
Also we want to set some text Serbin and do set content text and inside of there we might say How are
you doing.
Question mark.
Other things that we want to add is an icon.
So are you going to say Dot set small icon and there's lots of different icons that you can get access
to.
Let's do in lower case Android capital are draw a.
And there's all sorts of different options here but I'm going to do erro up float.
OK.
So once you have that in there there's one more thing I want to set and that's that we should have a
notification that when someone taps on it it will bring them back to the app and to do that we would
want to do a set content intent.
But in order to do that we have to have an intent to pass in there.
So we're going to make a new intent that we'll just call intent and let's say new intent and we want
this to have this further context.
But then also for where it's going it should come to this main activity because we only have one activity
for it to go to.
So just do me an activity class then we have to turn this into a pending intent.
So we're going to do pending intent.
We'll just call it pending intent is equal to a capital pending intent and we want you dot get activity
and we're going to pass in this context next it needs a request code.
And again this is number that we can choose I'm going to use zero on this case than it needs of the
intent which we just created and then we're going to pass it no flags will do as you are there and our
semi-colon.
So now we have this pending intent which is a little different from this intent because it will allow
us to work with this notification and we're going to pass in that pending intent.
And with that in place we can finally place our semi-colon and say OK this notifications already to
rock n roll.
And now we have to just with one line of code get access to our manager and say Dot notify.
And now this wants to know two things the first one is the I.D. which we're going to pass through as
default.
Remember that's our notification channel and then it also wants to know what notification I'm trying
to pass.
So in this case I'm going to give it the builder that we just created and that will say Dot build and
that will create a notification for us so.
Oh and I forgot this is not default.
This is supposed to be zero.
This is supposed to match with the number we have given inside of our pending intent.
OK.
So with that in place let's go ahead and run this.
I'm going to run it on the round device and we'll see what this looks like.
All right so the app opened up right before I could finish the start the recording the little notification
for it disappeared.
So if that happened to you go ahead and hit this power button and if you swipe up from the bottom it's
going to show our notification.
Look at that.
Hello there.
How're you doing.
And if we click on this it's going to bring us back and look we can see that notification again because
it's running the same code and again you want to see it hit that power button swipe up and we can check
out our notification.
That brings us back.
OK.
One more topic that I would like to cover and then we will be done with this Android where many course.